sometimes it's not about what you're
looking it's what you find 40 years of
waiting while you're looking so we're
very curious for Kevin Dykstra I'm sure
this season we'll find a and Frederick J
Monroe whoever finds it 2015 a real-life
treasure hunt has begun we've narrowed
the playing field down so much the pair
have been out scanning the lake off the
coast of Frankfort Michigan probably at
least a dozen times already searching
for what they believe could be the lost
Confederate gold treasure which
curiously disappeared after the Civil
War they think the answer to the 150
year old mystery is out there without
question somewhere thanks to a two-part
story that has transcended generations
and was last relayed to Monroe in 1972 I
was talking to a friend of mine and he
told me a story that he heard from his
grandfather who heard from a lighthouse
keeper there was a boxcar
with two million dollars in gold bullion
that sank off the coast of Frankfort the
lighthouse keeper allegedly learned it
through a deathbed confession delivered
by George Alexander Abbott who died in
Muskegon Michigan in 1921 we believed
wholeheartedly that the Confederate gold
story is true and we believe that the
boxcars are out here in the late 1800s
near Frankfort boxcars were shoved off
ferries into Lake Michigan to lighten
the load during bad weather in part two
of the story he told me about a boat
that has a cabin in it with a safe in it
and inside the safe there was jury gold
and silver that's not really what we're
looking for though but it may be what
they found during one of their recent
expeditions we decided to make one final
pass and head out towards deeper deeper
water when this image appeared on their
sonar we are actually on our last
past of the day looks like a ship
sitting upright on the lake bottom Kevin
got suited up
curiosity triggered an immediate need to
investigate 37-degree water is cold what
could it be
rather than a boarding the the offer we
decided to go on through with it their
120 foot dive to the deep begin as a
goner
the guy saw a perfectly preserved vessel
came into view what do you see
possibly a tugboat roughly 70 feet long
those actually hovering over the bow of
the ship I looked down and I could see
the windlass very clear just back from
the winch I come across the masts
sticking straight up probably about 25
feet possibly 30 feet just beyond that
was a hatch cover on the deck still
intact to the to the left of the hatch
cover was a very pronounced anchor which
led Dykstra to think he was exploring an
undiscovered shipwreck moved back
towards the back of the ship I come to
the pilot house perfectly intact
steering wheel still in place then
something even more interesting caught
his eye and then as I look to the back
of the cabin there was a rear door to
the cabin just to the left of the rear
door was a safe covered in zebra mussels
no doubt holding a mystery within to
find a boat a tug style boat with a
cabin intact with a safe while we're
looking for the boxcars that just seems
the odds just seemed to fire you know
that it that it must be related it just
makes everything come together a 40-year
weight of is it true or isn't it about
the story but the weight won't be over
we got to find out what's in the safe
unless the state of Michigan decides to
get involved once I realized there was a
safe
I did call the state archaeologists
didn't let him know if that safe is
opened and there's gold silver and
jewels in there to us it really puts the
boxcars a lot closer Dijkstra
munroe say that given the size type and
location of the vessel they feel they
know the identity of the wreck though
they want to do more research to be 100%
sure they say if the ship is the one
they believe it to be it was ironically
owned by a prominent jeweler I recently
spoke with State Archaeologist Dean
Anderson and asked him about this
shipwreck but he elected not to offer a
comment on if the state has any plans to
investigate the wreck and excavate the
safe so for now the mystery will remain
a mystery